.\"
.\" ---------- TITLE / HEADER ------------------------------
.\"
.TH runpar.sh 1  "January 06, 2016" "version 1.1" "USER COMMANDS"
.\"
.SH NAME
runpar.sh \- Parallel Processing Shell Script
.\"
.\" ---------- SYNOPSIS ------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B runpar.sh
[options] [--] [files]
.\"
.\" ---------- DESCRIPTION ------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
runpar.sh is a shell script that executes commands in parallel, but their
number is limited to an adjustable value.
.PP
With one CPU runpar.sh can be used to spread the load.  If multiple CPUs are
available, processes can be executed in parallel.
.\"
.\" ---------- OPTIONS ------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-c <command>    
Command to execute in parallel; needs files to process.
.TP
\-C <file>       
Use command file with one complete command per line.
.TP
\-d <delay>      
Delay between checks for terminated processes (default 0.1 [seconds]).
.TP
\-D <delay>      
Additional delay between max_proc processes (format: digits[smhd] ).
.TP
\-f <file>       
Specify file containing filenames to process (needs -c).
.TP
\-h              
Display this message.
.TP
\-l <file>       
Set the log file name (default: LOGFILE.runpar.sh.<PID>).
.TP
\-L <limit>      
Runtime limit (seconds), default is 0 (no runtime check); processes running longer then <limit> will be logged.
.TP
\-p <max_proc>   
Start the specified number of processes in parallel. Ignore the number of CPUs.
.TP
\-v              
Display a simple progress indicator.
.\"
.\" ---------- EXAMPLES ------------------------------
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.\"
.TP
Generate Postscript files from all PDF files in the working directory:
.B runpar.sh -c pdf2ps *.pdf
.TP
Generate Postscript files from all PDF files in the working directory:
.B ls *.pdf | runpar.sh -c pdf2ps
.\"
.TP
Generate Postscript files from all PDF files in the working directory; allow 4 parallel processes:
.B ls *.pdf | runpar.sh -p 4 -c pdf2ps
.\"
.TP
Generate  PDFs files from all eps-files listed in files.list; allow 4 parallel processes; display progress indicator; log processes running longer then 10 seconds:
.\"
.B runpar.sh -c epstopdf -p 4  -v -L 10 -f files.list 
.\"
.TP
Run all commands from file commands.list :
.B runpar.sh -C commands.list 
.\"
.\" ---------- EXIT STATUS ------------------------------
.\"
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
success
.TP
1
unknown option
.TP
2
command not found or not executable
.TP
3
no command given
.TP
4
missing command line option(s)
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.\"
.\"
.\" ---------- AUTHOR ------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Fritz Mehner ( mehner.fritz (at) web.de )
.\"
.\" ---------- SEE ALSO ------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
xargs(1)

